README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/badges/github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog)
[![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/sul-dlss%2Fpreservation_catalog.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/gh/sul-dlss%2Fpreservation_catalog)


# README


Rails application with fixity data and object provenance supporting preservation object storage audit services


## Configuration

### Setting up PostgreSQL

#### 1. Installing Postgres

If you use homebrew you can install PostgreSQL by typing  `brew install postgresql` into the command line.

Make sure Postgres starts every time your computer starts up.
`brew services start postgresql`

Check to see if Postgres is installed:
`postgres -V`

and that it's accepting connections:
`pg_isready`

#### 2. Configuring Postgres

Using the `psql` utility, run these two setup scripts from the command line, like so:
```sh
psql -f db/scripts/pres_setup.sql postgres
psql -f db/scripts/pres_test_setup.sql postgres
```

These scripts do the following for you:
* create the test and dev PostgreSQL users.
* create the test and dev databases.
* setup the needed ownership and permissions between the DBs and the users.

For more info on postgres commands, see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/


## Usage Instructions

### General Info About Running These Rake Tasks

- Note: If the rake task takes multiple arguments, DO NOT put a space in between the commas.

- You can monitor the progress of most rake tasks by tailing `log/production.log`, or by querying the database from Rails console using ActiveRecord. The tasks for large storage_roots can take a while -- check [the repo wiki for stats](https://github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog/wiki) on the timing of past runs (and some suggested overview queries). Profiling will add some overhead.

- Rake tasks must be run from the root directory of the project, with whatever `RAILS_ENV` is appropriate. Because the task can take days when run over all storage roots, consider running it in a [screen session](http://thingsilearned.com/2009/05/26/gnu-screen-super-basic-tutorial/) so you don't need to keep your connection open but can still see the output.

As an alternative to `screen`, you can also run tasks in the background using `nohup` so the invoked command is not killed when you exist your session. Output that would've gone to stdout is instead redirected to a file called `nohup.out`, or you can redirect the output explicitly.  For example:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production nohup bundle exec rake seed_catalog >seed_whole_catalog_nohup-2017-12-12.txt &
```

### Seed the catalog

Seeding the catalog presumes an empty or nearly empty database -- otherwise running the seed task will throw `druid NOT expected to exist in catalog but was found` errors for each found object.

Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake seed_catalog
```

With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake seed_catalog[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, `log/profile_seed_catalog_for_all_storage_roots2017-11-13T13:57:01-flat.txt`


#### Reset the catalog for re-seeding

WARNING! this will erase the catalog, and thus require re-seeding from scratch.  It is mostly intended for development purposes, and it is unlikely that you'll need to run this against production once the catalog is in regular use.

* Deploy the branch of the code with which you wish to seed, to the instance which you wish to seed (e.g. master to stage).
* Reset the database for that instance.  E.g., on production or stage:  `RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:reset`
  * note that if you do this in an env that sees itself as production (i.e. production or stage), you'll get a scary warning along the lines of:
  ```
  ActiveRecord::ProtectedEnvironmentError: You are attempting to run a destructive action against your 'production' database.
  If you are sure you want to continue, run the same command with the environment variable:
  DISABLE_DATABASE_ENVIRONMENT_CHECK=1
  ```
  Basically an especially inconvenient confirmation dialogue.  For safety's sake, the full command that skips that warning can be constructed by the user as needed, so as to prevent unintentional copy/paste dismissal when the user might be administering multiple deployment environments simultaneously.  Inadvertent database wipes are no fun.
  * `db:reset` will make sure db is migrated and seeded.  If you want to be extra sure: `RAILS_ENV=[environment] bundle exec rake db:migrate db:seed`

### Drop or Populate the catalog for a single endpoint

- To run either of the rake tasks below, give the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as an argument.

#### Drop all database entries:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake drop[fixture_sr1]
```

#### Populate the catalog:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake populate[fixture_sr1]
```

### Run Moab to Catalog existence check for a single root and for all storage roots

- To run rake tasks below, give the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as an argument.

#### Single Root
- Without profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_single_root[fixture_sr1]
```
- With profiling:
```ruby

RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_single_root[fixture_sr1,profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, ```log/profiler_check_existence_for_dir2017-12-11T14:34:06-flat.txt```

#### All Roots
- Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_all_storage_roots
```
- With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_all_storage_roots[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, ```log/profile_check_existence_for_all_storage_roots2017-12-11T14:25:31-flat.txt```

### Run Catalog to Moab existence check for a single root or for all storage roots

- Given a catalog entry for an online moab, ensure that the online moab exists and that the catalog version matches the online moab version.

- To run rake tasks below, give a date and the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as arguments.

- The (date/timestamp) argument is a threshold:  it will run the check on all catalog entries which last had a version check BEFORE the argument. It should be in the format 2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC.

#### Single Root
- Without profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_on_dir[2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC,fixture_sr1]
```
- With profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_on_dir[2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC,fixture_sr1,profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example,
```log/profile_c2m_check_version_on_dir2018-01-01T14:25:31-flat.txt```

#### All Roots
- Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_all_dirs
```
- With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_all_dirs[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example,
```log/profile_c2m_check_version_all_roots2018-01-01T14:25:31-flat.txt```

## Development

### Running Tests

To run the tests:

```sh
rake spec
```

## Deploying

Capistrano is used to deploy.

Commit message:

date/timestamp argument must be a string when entered into c2m_checks

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/badges/github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog)
[![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/sul-dlss%2Fpreservation_catalog.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/gh/sul-dlss%2Fpreservation_catalog)


# README


Rails application with fixity data and object provenance supporting preservation object storage audit services


## Configuration

### Setting up PostgreSQL

#### 1. Installing Postgres

If you use homebrew you can install PostgreSQL by typing  `brew install postgresql` into the command line.

Make sure Postgres starts every time your computer starts up.
`brew services start postgresql`

Check to see if Postgres is installed:
`postgres -V`

and that it's accepting connections:
`pg_isready`

#### 2. Configuring Postgres

Using the `psql` utility, run these two setup scripts from the command line, like so:
```sh
psql -f db/scripts/pres_setup.sql postgres
psql -f db/scripts/pres_test_setup.sql postgres
```

These scripts do the following for you:
* create the test and dev PostgreSQL users.
* create the test and dev databases.
* setup the needed ownership and permissions between the DBs and the users.

For more info on postgres commands, see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/


## Usage Instructions

### General Info About Running These Rake Tasks

- Note: If the rake task takes multiple arguments, DO NOT put a space in between the commas.

- You can monitor the progress of most rake tasks by tailing `log/production.log`, or by querying the database from Rails console using ActiveRecord. The tasks for large storage_roots can take a while -- check [the repo wiki for stats](https://github.com/sul-dlss/preservation_catalog/wiki) on the timing of past runs (and some suggested overview queries). Profiling will add some overhead.

- Rake tasks must be run from the root directory of the project, with whatever `RAILS_ENV` is appropriate. Because the task can take days when run over all storage roots, consider running it in a [screen session](http://thingsilearned.com/2009/05/26/gnu-screen-super-basic-tutorial/) so you don't need to keep your connection open but can still see the output.

As an alternative to `screen`, you can also run tasks in the background using `nohup` so the invoked command is not killed when you exist your session. Output that would've gone to stdout is instead redirected to a file called `nohup.out`, or you can redirect the output explicitly.  For example:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production nohup bundle exec rake seed_catalog >seed_whole_catalog_nohup-2017-12-12.txt &
```

### Seed the catalog

Seeding the catalog presumes an empty or nearly empty database -- otherwise running the seed task will throw `druid NOT expected to exist in catalog but was found` errors for each found object.

Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake seed_catalog
```

With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake seed_catalog[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, `log/profile_seed_catalog_for_all_storage_roots2017-11-13T13:57:01-flat.txt`


#### Reset the catalog for re-seeding

WARNING! this will erase the catalog, and thus require re-seeding from scratch.  It is mostly intended for development purposes, and it is unlikely that you'll need to run this against production once the catalog is in regular use.

* Deploy the branch of the code with which you wish to seed, to the instance which you wish to seed (e.g. master to stage).
* Reset the database for that instance.  E.g., on production or stage:  `RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:reset`
  * note that if you do this in an env that sees itself as production (i.e. production or stage), you'll get a scary warning along the lines of:
  ```
  ActiveRecord::ProtectedEnvironmentError: You are attempting to run a destructive action against your 'production' database.
  If you are sure you want to continue, run the same command with the environment variable:
  DISABLE_DATABASE_ENVIRONMENT_CHECK=1
  ```
  Basically an especially inconvenient confirmation dialogue.  For safety's sake, the full command that skips that warning can be constructed by the user as needed, so as to prevent unintentional copy/paste dismissal when the user might be administering multiple deployment environments simultaneously.  Inadvertent database wipes are no fun.
  * `db:reset` will make sure db is migrated and seeded.  If you want to be extra sure: `RAILS_ENV=[environment] bundle exec rake db:migrate db:seed`

### Drop or Populate the catalog for a single endpoint

- To run either of the rake tasks below, give the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as an argument.

#### Drop all database entries:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake drop[fixture_sr1]
```

#### Populate the catalog:

```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake populate[fixture_sr1]
```

### Run Moab to Catalog existence check for a single root and for all storage roots

- To run rake tasks below, give the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as an argument.

#### Single Root
- Without profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_single_root[fixture_sr1]
```
- With profiling:
```ruby

RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_single_root[fixture_sr1,profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, ```log/profiler_check_existence_for_dir2017-12-11T14:34:06-flat.txt```

#### All Roots
- Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_all_storage_roots
```
- With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake m2c_exist_all_storage_roots[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example, ```log/profile_check_existence_for_all_storage_roots2017-12-11T14:25:31-flat.txt```

### Run Catalog to Moab existence check for a single root or for all storage roots

- Given a catalog entry for an online moab, ensure that the online moab exists and that the catalog version matches the online moab version.

- To run rake tasks below, give a date and the name of the moab storage_root (e.g. from settings/development.yml) as arguments.

- The (date/timestamp) argument is a threshold:  it will run the check on all catalog entries which last had a version check BEFORE the argument. It should be in the format '2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC'.

- Note: Must enter date/timestamp argument as a string.

#### Single Root
- Without profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_on_dir['2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC',fixture_sr1]
```
- With profiling
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_on_dir['2018-01-22 22:54:48 UTC',fixture_sr1,profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example,
```log/profile_c2m_check_version_on_dir2018-01-01T14:25:31-flat.txt```

#### All Roots
- Without profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_all_dirs
```
- With profiling:
```ruby
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake c2m_check_version_all_dirs[profile]
```
this will generate a log at, for example,
```log/profile_c2m_check_version_all_roots2018-01-01T14:25:31-flat.txt```

## Development

### Running Tests

To run the tests:

```sh
rake spec
```

## Deploying

Capistrano is used to deploy.
